---
title: "Migration from 2.1.x to 2.2.0"
description: "This section is meant to provide useful help in migrating your OpenSIPS installations from the 2.1.0 version to 2.2.0."
---

This section is meant to provide useful help in migrating your OpenSIPS installations from the **2.1.0** version to **2.2.0**.

You can find the all the new additions in the **2.2.0** release compiled [under this page](https://www.opensips.org/About/Version-2-2-0). The ChangeLog may help your understanding of the migration / update process.

> [!WARNING]
> Make sure you don't have any **Makefile.conf** files in your sources' root before starting the migration. The configuration file generated by *'menuconfig* is not compatible with the one in older version!

---

## DB migration

You can migrate your 1.10.x MySQL DB to the 1.11.0 format by using the **opensipsdbctl** tool :
```text

   # opensipsdbctl migrate opensips_2_1 opensips_2_2

```
where :
* opensips_2_1 is the existing DB name corresponding to version 2.1.x format
* opensips_2_2 is the DB name to be created for 2.2 format

> [!NOTE]
> * the old database will not be deleted, altered or changed - it will not be touched at all
> * new database will be created and data from old DB will be imported into it

> [!NOTE]
> The migration tool is available only for MYSQL databases!

> [!NOTE]
> The default MySQL DB engine is now InnoDB!

---

## Script migration
The following is the full list of backwards-incompatible syntax or functional changes in the OpenSIPS configuration script (some of them are fixes):

### Core
* **mpath** parameter has been changed for debian packages from the default **/usr/lib/opensips/modules/** to **/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/opensips/modules/**; if you have your OpenSIPS installed from deb files, make sure you update it with the correct path.
* **debug** global parameter was replaced by the [log_level](/manual/2-2/script-coreparameters#log_level) global parameter, with the same behavior and values.
* **set_debug()** function was removed and its functionality replaced by [`$log_level`](/manual/2-2/script-corevar#log_level) as follows:
```text

  set_debug(2); is now $log_level=2;
  set_debug() is now $log_level=NULL;

```
* **debug** MI command was replaced by **log_level** MI command - the entire functionality, input and out were preserved.
* [fork](/manual/2-2/script-coreparameters#fork) options is outdated and needs to be replaced with new [debug_mode](/manual/2-2/script-coreparameters#debug_mode) parameter.

> [!WARNING]
> Please read carefully the documentation of the **debug_mode** option and its behavior is not 100% similar to **fork**.
* as **user/uid** and **group/gid** global parameters were removed, use the **-u** and **-g** command line parameters instead.
* **script flags were removed** (setsflag(), issflagset(), resetsflag()) - former logic must be rewritten using message flags
* **bin_children** became obsolete as the BIN protocol implementation is now provided by the [proto_bin](/modules/2-2/proto_bin) module.
* **bin_listen** core parameter is replaced by the [bin_port](/modules/2-2/proto_bin#id284096) module parameter from **proto_bin** module (as a result of migrating the BIN implementation from core into a separate module)

### ACC module
* all ***_flag**(log_flag, db_flag...) and ***_missed_flag**(log_missed_flag, aaa_missed_flag...) along with **failed_transaction** are now parameters to **do_accounting()**(enable accounting) and **drop_accounting()**(disable accounting); the flags are not supported anymore so you have to remove them; 
* **cdr_flag** has been removed; cdr accounting can now be made only with **do_accounting()** and disabled with **drop_accounting()**;
* **table_avp** has been removed; the table name is now a parameter to **do_accounting()**;

### AVPOPS module
* if **avp_db_query** is used in multi-fields queries, note than **DB NULL fields are reported as string "`<null>`" AVPs**.

> [!WARNING]
> You need to reconsider your checks for the return data as NULL AVPs may be reported as "`<null>`" AVPs now.

### CPL-C module
* as the module was renamed to **cpl_c**, be sure an update the *loadmodule* and *modparam* statements related to this module. The name of the functions and parameters did not change.

### DIALOG module
* the **ping_interval** renamed as **options_ping_interval** (same meaning)
* to migrate the dialog replication the [clusterer](/modules/2-2/clusterer) support: parameter **replicate_dialogs_to** is an integer now pointing to a cluster ID (as defined by the clusterer module). The set of destinations must be now defined as a cluster.
* to migrate the profile sharing the [clusterer](/modules/2-2/clusterer) support: parameter **replicate_profiles_to** is an integer now pointing to a cluster ID (as defined by the clusterer module). Also you should consider setting the **auth_check** parameter to ON.

### DIALPLAN module
* if using the default partition, be sure to explicitly set the db_url parameter (as the default value from db_default_url will not be inherited)

### DISPATCHER module
* if using the default partition, be sure to explicitly set the db_url parameter (as the default value from db_default_url will not be inherited)

### MI_XMLRPC_NG
* replace **mi_xmlrpc_ng_root** module parameter with the new name **http_root**

### PROTO_TCP module
* parameter **tcp_async** is now by default on, so you might need to explicitly set it in order to keep your desired setting.

### PROTO_TLS module
* the TLS domains used for tuning the TLS parameters have been moved in the [tls_mgm](/modules/2-2/tls_mgm); in order to migrate the TLS module, you have to load the **tls_mgm** module and move the following modparams from **proto_tls** to **tls_mgm**: **tls_method**, **certificate**, **private_key**, **ca_list**, **ca_dir**, **ciphers_list**, **dh_params**, **ec_curve**, **verify_cert**

### RATELIMIT module
* to migrate the profile sharing the [clusterer](/modules/2-2/clusterer) support drop the **cachedb_url** and use **replicate_pipes_to** parameter to point to a cluster ID (as defined by the clusterer module). 

### SIPTRACE module
* **db_url** parameter has been removed; the db URL is now part of the **trace_id** parameter definition.
* **trace_flag** parameter has been removed; no flag needed, everything is done now using **sip_trace()** script function (old sip_trace()+setflag() is now achieved via sip_trace("t") - transaction level tracing). 
* **trace_on** flag can now be enabled/disabled per **trace_id** via MI 
* **traced_user_avp** has been removed; **sip_trace** now has a paramater **trace_attrs** which does the same thing, but pops only the first value in a variable (not an entry for each value in case of an avp);
* **duplicate_uri** has been removed; it can now be defined using the **trace_id** both for normal sip and hep 
* **table** parameter has been removed; a database table can now be defined using **trace_id** parameter
* **trace_to_database** flags has been removed; tracing can be enabled/disabled via mi on each **trace_id**, giving you the possibility to enable/disable tracing for a **trace_id** containing a database
* **duplicate_with_hep** flag has been removed; now one can define via **trace_id** parameter any sip or hep destination (any traffic can be traced in the same time to multiple trace IDs)
* **hep_version** has been removed; parameter moved inside **proto_hep** module
* **hep_capture_id** has been removed; parameter moved inside **proto_hep** module
* **trace_dialog** has been removed; same functionality can be achieved using **sip_trace** with the proper flags ( sip_trace("d",...) )
* **sip_trace** function definition has changed; now it expects at least a **trace_id** and for advanced tracing one needs to properly set the flags and trace_attrs(old **traced_user_avp**); see [docs](/modules/2-2/siptrace#id293465)! 

### TM module
* t_relay() - 0x01 flag is outdated (has no effect any more). See [Commit 0db7789](https://github.com/OpenSIPS/opensips/commit/0db7789)

### USRLOC module
* parameter **replicate_contacts_to** is an integer now pointing to a cluster ID (as defined by the [clusterer](/modules/2-2/clusterer) module). The set of destinations must be now defined as a cluster.
