---
title: "Migration from 2.4.x to 3.0.0"
description: "This section is meant to provide useful help in migrating your OpenSIPS installations from the 2.4.0 version to 3.0.0."
---

This section is meant to provide useful help in migrating your OpenSIPS installations from the **2.4.0** version to **3.0.0**.

You can find the all the new additions in the **3.0.0** release compiled [under this page](https://www.opensips.org/About/Version-3-0-0). The ChangeLog may help your understanding of the migration / update process.

@@red|Make sure you don't have any **Makefile.conf** files in your sources' root before starting the migration. The configuration file generated by *'menuconfig* is not compatible with the one in older version!@@

---

## DB migration

You can migrate your 2.4.x MySQL DB to the 3.0.x format by using the **opensips-cli** tool :
```bash

   # opensips-cli -x database migrate 2.4_to_3.0 opensips_2_4 opensips_3_0

```
where :
* opensips_2_4 is the existing DB name corresponding to version 2.4.x format
* opensips_3_0 is the DB name to be created for 3.0.x format

See [the opensips-cli documentation](https://github.com/OpenSIPS/opensips-cli/blob/master/docs/modules/database.md#database-migration-mysql-only) for more details.

> [!NOTE]
> * the old database will not be deleted, altered or changed - it will not be touched at all
> * new database will be created and data from old DB will be imported into it

> [!NOTE]
> The migration tool is available only for MYSQL databases!

> [!NOTE]
> The default MySQL DB engine is now InnoDB!

---

## Script migration
The following is the full list of backwards-incompatible syntax or functional changes in the OpenSIPS configuration script (some of them are fixes):

### Global Parameters

* @@red|due to the newly introduced **xlog_level** global parameter (default value: L_NOTICE (2)), you may need to set an **xlog_level = 3** value before any of your *xlog("L_INFO", ...)* statements can work as before@@

* the **children** parameter is replaced by **udp_workers** parameter. The old name is marked as obsolete, but it still can be used (it will be effectively removed in the next release)

* the **tcp_children** parameter is replaced by **tcp_workers** parameter. The old name is marked as obsolete, but it still can be used (it will be effectively removed in the next release)

* the **use_children** option inside the **listen** parameter is replaced by **use_workers**. The old name is marked as obsolete, but it still can be used (it will be effectively removed in the next release)

* global parameter *xlog_default_level* was renamed as **xlog_print_level**, with no change in its behavior

### Module functions

#### Remove quotes

As a result of the enhancement of the interface for module functions (for generic support of script variables in the parameters), some parameters will have be passed without quotes (like if they are numerical values or returning variables).

For example:

```text
 send_reply( "200", "OK"); 
```

is now

```text
 send_reply( 200, "OK"); 
```

as the first parameter requires a numerical value.

Also :

```text
 check_source_address( "4", "$avp(ctx)"); 
```

is now

```text
 check_source_address( 4, $avp(ctx)); 
```

as the first parameter requires a numerical value and the second one requires a returning variable.  

#### Escape "$" characters in plain-text strings

Since all OpenSIPS strings which get passed to functions have become format strings in 3.0, each singular **"$"** sign must be escaped using its **"$$"** form, otherwise the parser will expect a variable over there!

For example:

```text

avp_subst("$avp(sdp_ip)", "/^c=IN IP[46] (.*)$/\1/"); 

```

becomes:

```text

avp_subst("$avp(sdp_ip)", "/^c=IN IP[46] (.*)$$/\1/"); 

```

#### Other function-related issues

There are many changes as the ones listed above. IF during the startup, while the config file is parsed to get an error like:
```text

 ERROR:core:fix_cmd: Param [n] expected to be an integer or variable
 ERROR:core:fix_actions: Failed to fix command <name_of_function>

```
it means the *n*-th parameter of the module function *name_of_function* changed from string type to integer or variable type.   

  

To do the translation to the right type of parameter, check the documentation of faulty function - there you can find the required type for each parameter. If you have doubts how to pass the certain parameters (depending on their type), please check this [documentation](/docs/manual/3-0/script-syntax).

### AUTH_AAA module

* the [service_type](/docs/modules/2-4/auth_aaa#param_service_type) module parameter was renamed as [auth_service_type](/docs/modules/3-0/auth_aaa#param_auth_service_type) with the same meaning and values.

### AVPOPS module
* **avp_insert()** was dropped in favour of the equivalent, already existing syntax: **`$(avp(foo)[append])` = "bar";** (for appending to end-of-list) and **`$(avp(foo)[3])` = "bar";** (for writing at a specific AVP index)
* **buf_size** query printing buffer was removed in favour of the new generic format string buffer setting, **[pv_print_buf_size](/docs/manual/3-0/script-coreparameters#pv_print_buf_size)**

### DB_MYSQL module
* the **tls_client_domain**  module parameter was removed in favor of a new way of enabling TLS for specific MySQL connections via the DB URL.

### CLUSTERER module
* the **current_id**, **current_info** and **neighbor_info** module parameters were renamed to **my_node_id**, **my_node_info** and **neighbor_node_info** respectively.

### DIALOG module
* the functionality of the old module parameter [dlg_sharing_tag](/docs/modules/2-4/dialog#param_dlg_sharing_tag) is now provided via the clusterer module parameter [sharing_tag](/docs/modules/3-0/clusterer#param_sharing_tag) - note that the syntax is slightly different, refer to docs.
* the functionality of the old MI function [dlg_set_sharing_tag_active](/docs/modules/2-4/dialog#mi_dlg_set_sharing_tag_active) is now provided via the clusterer module MI function [mi_clusterer_shtag_set_active](/docs/modules/3-0/clusterer#mi_clusterer_shtag_set_active)
* the functionality of the old MI function [dlg_list_sharing_tags](/docs/modules/2-4/dialog#mi_dlg_list_sharing_tags) is now provided via the clusterer module MI function [mi_clusterer_list_shtags](/docs/modules/3-0/clusterer#mi_clusterer_list_shtags)

### DIALPLAN module
* **[dp_translate()](/docs/modules/3-0/dialplan#func_dp_translate)** parameters have been reworked to be more clear:
  * the composite "partition:id" parameter was split into "id" (mandatory) and "partition" (optional)
  * the composite "src/dest" parameter was split into "input" (mandatory) and "out_var" (optional)

### DISPATCHER module
* **[ds_select_dst()](/docs/modules/3-0/dispatcher#func_ds_select_dst)** parameters have been reworked to be easier to understand and maintain.  Specifically:
  * the "s" (skip destination) flag was dropped (equivalent logic: "`$du` == NULL && ds_select_dst()")
  * the "a" (append destination) flag was added, replacing all the complex set / algorithm / flags list-parameter logic in favour of simply calling ds_select_dst() multiple times.
  * the "set" composite parameter was decoupled into two basic parameters: "set" (mandatory) and "partition" (optional)
* **[ds_select_domain()](/docs/modules/3-0/dispatcher#func_ds_select_domain)** parameters have been reworked to be easier to understand and maintain.  The changes follow the same pattern as ds_select_dst().
* **[ds_count()](/docs/modules/3-0/dispatcher#func_ds_count)**'s complex "set" parameter has been split in two simple parameters: "set" (mandatory) and "partition" (optional).
* **[ds_is_in_list()](/docs/modules/3-0/dispatcher#func_ds_is_in_list)**'s complex "set" parameter has been split in two simple parameters: "set" (mandatory) and "partition" (optional).

### DROUTING module
* the old module parameter [status_replication_cluster](/docs/modules/2-4/drouting#param_status_replication_cluster) was renamed as  [cluster_id](/docs/modules/3-0/drouting#param_cluster_id).
* **[do_routing()](/docs/modules/3-0/drouting#func_do_routing)**'s composite "[partition:]group_id" parameter has been split in two parameters: "group_id" (mandatory) and "partition" (optional)
* **[route_to_carrier()](/docs/modules/3-0/drouting#func_route_to_carrier)**'s composite "[partition:]carrier_id" parameter has been split in two parameters: "carriers" (mandatory) and "partition" (optional)
* **[route_to_gw()](/docs/modules/3-0/drouting#func_route_to_gw)**'s composite "[partition:]gw_id" parameter has been split in two parameters: "gw_id" CSV (mandatory) and "partition" (optional)
* **[use_next_gw()](/docs/modules/3-0/drouting#func_use_next_gw)**'s parameter order has been changed for consistency reasons ("partition" is last now)
* **[goes_to_gw()](/docs/modules/3-0/drouting#func_goes_to_gw)**'s parameter order has been changed for consistency reasons ("partition" is last now)
* **[is_from_gw()](/docs/modules/3-0/drouting#func_is_from_gw)**'s parameter order has been changed for consistency reasons ("partition" is last now)
* **[dr_is_gw()](/docs/modules/3-0/drouting#func_dr_is_gw)**'s parameter order has been changed for consistency reasons ("partition" is last now)

### ENUM module
* **enum_pv_query()** has been merged into [enum_query()](/docs/modules/3-0/enum#func_enum_query)

### EVENT_ROUTE module
* **fetch_event_params()** function has been completely dropped - in order to fetch the parameters of an event, you will have to use the `$params(name)` variable in the route. As an example, the following snippets have the same meaning in the two different versions:
```bash

# route used in OpenSIPS 2.4
event_route[E_PIKE_BLOCKED] {
	fetch_event_params("ip=$avp(pike-ip)");
	xlog("IP $avp(pike-ip) has been blocked\n");
}

# route used in OpenSIPS 3.0
event_route[E_PIKE_BLOCKED] {
	xlog("IP $param(ip) has been blocked\n");
}

```

### LOAD_BALANCER module
* the old module parameter [status_replication_cluster](/docs/modules/2-4/load_balancer#param_status_replication_cluster) was renamed as [cluster_id](/docs/modules/3-0/load_balancer#param_cluster_id).

### MI_HTTP module
* the **mi_http** module has been renamed to **mi_html** module. you have to replace your `modparam("mi_http"...` lines with `modparam("mi_html"...` lines

### MI_JSON module
* the **mi_json** module has been renamed to **mi_http** module. you have to replace your `modparam("mi_json"...` lines with `modparam("mi_http"...` lines
* as the protocol for MI interaction has been shifted to *JSON-RPC*, you must now use POST instead of GET as HTTP request method.

### PERMISSIONS module
* **[check_address()](/docs/modules/3-0/permissions#func_check_address)**'s composite "[partition:]group_id" parameter has been split in two parameters: "group_id" (mandatory) and "partition" (optional)
* **[check_source_address()](/docs/modules/3-0/permissions#func_check_source_address)**'s composite "[partition:]group_id" parameter has been split in two parameters: "group_id" (mandatory) and "partition" (optional)
* **[get_source_group()](/docs/modules/3-0/permissions#func_get_source_group)**'s composite "[partition:]var" parameter has been split in two parameters: "var" (mandatory) and "partition" (optional)

### PRESENCE module
* the functionality of the old module parameter [cluster_sharing_tags](/docs/modules/2-4/presence#param_cluster_sharing_tags) is now provided via the clusterer module parameter [sharing_tag](/docs/modules/3-0/clusterer#param_sharing_tag) - note that the syntax is slightly different, refer to docs.
* the functionality of the old MI function [pres_set_sharing_tag_active](/docs/modules/2-4/presence#mi_pres_set_sharing_tag_active) is now provided via the clusterer module MI function [mi_clusterer_shtag_set_active](/docs/modules/3-0/clusterer#mi_clusterer_shtag_set_active)
* the functionality of the old MI function [pres_list_sharing_tags](/docs/modules/2-4/presence#mi_pres_list_sharing_tags) is now provided via the clusterer module MI function [mi_clusterer_list_shtags](/docs/modules/3-0/clusterer#mi_clusterer_list_shtags)

### REST_CLIENT module
* The parameter of the **[rest_init_client_tls](/docs/modules/3-0/rest_client#func_rest_init_client_tls)** function now only takes the TLS domain name.
* extensive return codes for [rest_get()](/docs/modules/3-0/rest_client#func_rest_get), [rest_post()](/docs/modules/3-0/rest_client#func_rest_post) and [rest_put()](/docs/modules/3-0/rest_client#func_rest_put)

### SIPMSGOPS module
* **remove_hf()** was split into **[remove_hf()](/docs/modules/3-0/sipmsgops#func_remove_hf)**, **[remove_hf_re()](/docs/modules/3-0/sipmsgops#func_remove_hf_re)** and **[remove_hf_glob()](/docs/modules/3-0/sipmsgops#func_remove_hf_glob)**.  As a result, the "flags" parameter was dropped.

### SIPCAPTURE module
* **[report_capture()](/docs/modules/3-0/sipcapture#func_report_capture)** parameter order has changed
* **[hep_set()](/docs/modules/3-0/sipcapture#func_hep_set)** parameter order has changed
* **[hep_get()](/docs/modules/3-0/sipcapture#func_hep_get)** parameter order has changed

### SIPTRACE module
* the **siptrace** module has been renamed to **tracer** module. you have to replace your `modparam("siptrace"...` lines with `modparam("tracer"...` lines
* function [sip_trace()](/docs/modules/2-4/siptrace#func_sip_trace) was renamed in the new module to [trace()](/docs/modules/2-4/tracer#func_trace)
* MI function [sip_trace](/docs/modules/2-4/siptrace#mi_sip_trace) was renamed in the new module to [trace](/docs/modules/2-4/tracer#mi_trace)

### TLS_MGM module
* the **address** column from the *tls_mgm* table was removed and the TLS domain matching is now driven by two new columns: **match_ip_address** and **match_sip_domain**
* the syntax for the **server_domain** and **client_domain** parameters now only accepts the TLS domain name
* the **client_domain_avp** module parameter was renamed to **client_tls_domain_avp**

### UAC module
* the "uac_replace_xxx()" functions requires now 2 parameters (display and URI), where the first one may be optional. Instead of **uac_replace_from("URI")**, simply use **uac_replace_from( , "URI")**

### UAC_REDIRECT module
* **[get_redirects()](/docs/modules/3-0/uac_redirect#func_get_redirects)** -> the deprecated "reason" parameter, along with the accounting logic behind it have been completely dropped

### URI module (dropped)
* function [has_totag()](/docs/modules/2-4/uri#func_has_totag) was moved in SIPMSGOPS module under the same name.
* function [is_user()](/docs/modules/2-4/uri#func_is_user) was removed, it can simply be replaced with the script test `$au==$var(my_username)`.
* function [uri_param()](/docs/modules/2-4/uri#func_uri_param) was moved in SIPMSGOPS module under the [ruri_has_param()](/docs/modules/3-0/sipmsgops#func_ruri_has_param) name.
* function [add_uri_param()](/docs/modules/2-4/uri#func_add_uri_param) was moved in SIPMSGOPS module under the [ruri_add_param()](/docs/modules/3-0/sipmsgops#func_ruri_add_param) name.
* function [del_uri_param()](/docs/modules/2-4/uri#func_del_uri_param) was moved in SIPMSGOPS module under the [ruri_del_param()](/docs/modules/3-0/sipmsgops#func_ruri_del_param) name.
* function [tel2sip()](/docs/modules/2-4/uri#func_tel2sip) was moved in SIPMSGOPS module under the [ruri_tel2sip()](/docs/modules/3-0/sipmsgops#func_ruri_tel2sip) name.
* function [is_uri_user_e164()](/docs/modules/2-4/uri#func_is_uri_user_e164) was moved in SIPMSGOPS module under the same name.
* function [db_check_to()](/docs/modules/2-4/uri#func_db_check_to) was replaced by the AUTH_DB module with:
  * if **use_uri_table** was set, use [db_is_to_authorized("uri")](/docs/modules/3-0/auth_db#func_db_is_to_authorized)
  * if **use_uri_table** was not set, imply replace it with the `$au==$tU` script test.
* function [db_check_from()](/docs/modules/2-4/uri#func_db_check_from) was replaced by the AUTH_DB module with:
  * if **use_uri_table** was set, use [db_is_from_authorized("uri")](/docs/modules/3-0/auth_db#func_db_is_from_authorized)
  * if **use_uri_table** was not set, simply replace it with the `$au==$fU` script test.
* function [db_does_uri_exist()](/docs/modules/2-4/uri#func_db_does_uri_exist) was replaced by the AUTH_DB module with:
  * if **use_uri_table** was not set, use [db_does_uri_exist("`$ru`","subscriber")](/docs/modules/3-0/auth_db#func_db_does_uri_exist)
  * if **use_uri_table** was set (very unlikely setup), you can still achieve it by use [db_get_auth_id("uri","`$ru`","`$avp(auser)`","`$avp(arealm)`")](/docs/modules/3-0/auth_db#func_db_get_auth_id)
* function [db_get_auth_id()](/docs/modules/2-4/uri#func_db_get_auth_id) was moved in AUTH_DB module under the same name but an extra first parameter set to "uri" value, like [db_get_auth_id("uri",....)](/docs/modules/3-0/auth_db#func_db_get_auth_id).
* the parameter [user_column](/docs/modules/2-4/uri#param_user_column) was moved in AUTH_DB module under the [uri_user_column](/docs/modules/3-0/auth_db#param_uri_user_column) name.
* the parameter [domain_column](/docs/modules/2-4/uri#param_domain_column) was moved in AUTH_DB module under the [uri_domain_column](/docs/modules/3-0/auth_db#param_uri_domain_column) name.
* the parameter [uriuser_column](/docs/modules/2-4/uri#param_uriuser_column) was moved in AUTH_DB module under the [uri_uriuser_column](/docs/modules/3-0/auth_db#param_uri_uriuser_column) name.
* the [service_type](/docs/modules/2-4/uri#param_service_type) module parameter was moved to URI module as [check_service_type](/docs/modules/3-0/auth_aaa#param_check_service_type) with the same meaning and values.
* function [aaa_does_uri_exist()](/docs/modules/2-4/uri#func_aaa_does_uri_exist) was moved to the AUTH_AAA module under the same name and behavior.
* function [aaa_does_uri_user_exist()](/docs/modules/2-4/uri#func_aaa_does_uri_user_exist) was moved to the AUTH_AAA module under the same name and behavior.
