---
title: "Migration from 2.3.x to 2.4.x"
description: "This section is meant to provide useful help in migrating your OpenSIPS installations from the 2.3.0 version to 2.4.x."
---

This section is meant to provide useful help in migrating your OpenSIPS installations from the **2.3.0** version to **2.4.x**.

You can find the all the new additions in the **2.4.x** release compiled [under this page](https://www.opensips.org/About/Version-3-0-0). The ChangeLog may help your understanding of the migration / update process.

> [!WARNING]
> Make sure you don't have any **Makefile.conf** files in your sources' root before starting the migration. The configuration file generated by *'menuconfig* is not compatible with the one in older version!

---

## DB migration

You can migrate your 2.3.x MySQL DB to the 2.4.x format by using the **opensipsdbctl** tool :
```text

   # opensipsdbctl migrate opensips_2_3 opensips_2_4

```
where :
* opensips_2_3 is the existing DB name corresponding to version 2.3.x format
* opensips_2_4 is the DB name to be created for 2.4 format

> [!NOTE]
> * the old database will not be deleted, altered or changed - it will not be touched at all
> * new database will be created and data from old DB will be imported into it

> [!NOTE]
> The migration tool is available only for MYSQL databases!

> [!NOTE]
> The default MySQL DB engine is now InnoDB!

---

## Script migration
The following is the full list of backwards-incompatible syntax or functional changes in the OpenSIPS configuration script (some of them are fixes):

### Global Parameters

* **poll_method**: **epoll_et** and **epoll_lt** keywords have been replaced with the **epoll** keyword (which behaves as old **epoll_lt**).

### Core keywords

Removed the concept of **core keywords**. Some keywords were dropped entirely (as they were redundant) and others were replaced as functionality by other means (
new core function, new core variable etc.).

* removed **myself**, use the new [is_myself()](/docs/manual/3-0/script-corefunctions) core function instead.

> [!NOTE]
> The meaning of **is_myself()** is slightly different. Rather than comparing against a SIP URI as before, *is_myself()* now compares against a hostname, alias or IP which is given as a parameter. For example, **!(uri == myself)** is now equivalent to **!is_myself("`$rd`")**. This little migration detail may save you hours of script troubleshooting :)
* removed **af** keyword along with *INET*, *INET6* core values, use the new [`$af`](/docs/manual/3-0/script-corevar) core variable instead and test it's value against "INET" or "INET6" string values;
* removed **dst_ip** and **src_ip**, use [`$Ri`](/docs/manual/3-0/script-corevar) and [`$si`](/docs/manual/3-0/script-corevar) core variables instead;
* removed **dst_port** and **src_port**, use [`$Rp`](/docs/manual/3-0/script-corevar) and [`$sp`](/docs/manual/3-0/script-corevar) core variables instead;
* removed **uri**, **from_uri** and **to_uri**,  use [`$ru`](/docs/manual/3-0/script-corevar), [`$fu`](/docs/manual/3-0/script-corevar) and [`$tu`](/docs/manual/3-0/script-corevar) core variables instead;
* removed **method**, use [`$rm`](/docs/manual/3-0/script-corevar) core variable instead;
* removed **status**, use [`$rs`](/docs/manual/3-0/script-corevar) core variable instead;
* removed **proto** keyword along with *UDP*, *TCP*, *WS*, etc. core values, use [`$pr`/`$proto`](/docs/manual/3-0/script-corevar) core variable instead and test it's value against "udp", "tcp", "ws" etc. string values;
* removed **msg:len** keyword along with *max_len* core value, use [`$ml`](/docs/manual/3-0/script-corevar) core variable instead.

### Core MI commands

* the output format of **MI cache_fetch** has changed. It is easier to parse now, but backwards-incompatible nevertheless!

### Statistics migration
Following the rework of the LOAD reporting, the old load related statistics **tcp-load** and  **udp:int_ip:int_port-load** should be replaced with [load](/docs/manual/3-0/interface-corestatistics#load) or [load-all](/docs/manual/3-0/interface-corestatistics#load-all) statistics.

## Module migration

### CACHEDB_REDIS

* OpenSIPS startup no longer gets aborted if any of the Redis servers are down. To restore the old behavior, set the new **[shutdown_on_error](/docs/modules/2-4/cachedb_redis#idp5504688)** modparam to 1.

### CGRATES

* The old `$cgrret` variable has been deprecated - it's behavior has been replaces by the newly added [`$cgr_ret(name)`](/docs/modules/2-4/cgrates#idp5675504) variable. Replace in your script all `$cgrret` tokens with `$cgr_ret`.
* The new module uses by default the **SessionSv1** cgrates interface. In order to use the old **SMGenericV1** interface, you must set the [compat_mode](/docs/modules/2-4/cgrates#idp5583008) parameter to **1**.

### CLUSTERER

* the **ls_seq_no** and **top_seq_no** columns from the clusterer table were removed and are no longer required for the topology establishing mechanism.

### DIALOG
* **[match_dialog()](/docs/modules/2-4/dialog#func_match_dialog)** does **NOT** do DID_FALLBACK matching by default anymore, and will inherit the matching behavior of the [dlg_match_mode](/docs/modules/2-4/dialog#param_dlg_match_mode) modparam
* reduce the dialog replication related module parameters: **accept_replicated_dialogs** and **replicate_dialogs_to** to a single parameter:
 **[dialog_replication_cluster](/docs/modules/2-4/dialog#idp5744576)**.
* reduce the profile replication related module parameters: **accept_replicated_profiles** and **replicate_profiles_to** to a single parameter:
 **[profile_replication_cluster](/docs/modules/2-4/dialog#idp5749600)**.

### DROUTING

* gateway type **0** has been fixed: it no longer erroneously matches all types. This is relevant for you if you use something like *is_from_gw(partition, type)*
* reduce the replication related module parameters: **accept_replicated_status** and **replicate_status_to** to a single parameter: **[status_replication_cluster](/docs/modules/2-4/drouting#idp6071344)**.

### FRAUD_DETECTION
* the module now uses local time instead of UTC time. The former behavior can be restored by enabling **[use_utc_time](/docs/modules/2-4/fraud_detection#param_use_utc_time)**.

### LOAD_BALANCER

* reduce the replication related module parameters: **accept_replicated_status** and **replicate_status_to** to a single parameter: **[status_replication_cluster](/docs/modules/2-4/load_balancer#idp5913456)**.

### RATELIMIT

* reduce the replication related module parameters: **accept_pipes_from** and **replicate_pipes_to** to a single parameter: **[pipe_replication_cluster](/docs/modules/2-4/ratelimit#idp5552304)**.

### TOPOLOGY_HIDING
* * **[topology_hiding_match()](/docs/modules/2-4/topology_hiding#func_topology_hiding_match)** does **NOT** do DID_FALLBACK matching by default anymore, and will inherit the matching behavior of the [dlg_match_mode](/docs/modules/2-4/dialog#param_dlg_match_mode) modparam

### STATISTICS

* the behavior for script-defined statistics which include multiple **":"** symbols (e.g. **"method:register:auth"**) has changed. Read [this commit](https://github.com/OpenSIPS/opensips/commit/92de4ffc) for more info
