---
title: "Migration from 3.3.x to 3.4.0"
description: "This section is meant to provide useful help in migrating your OpenSIPS installations from the 3.3.0 version to 3.4.0."
---

This section is meant to provide useful help in migrating your OpenSIPS installations from the **3.3.0** version to **3.4.0**.

You can find the all the new additions in the **3.4.0** release compiled [under this page](https://www.opensips.org/About/Version-3-4-0). The ChangeLog may help your understanding of the migration / update process.

> [!WARNING]
> Make sure you don't carry a left-over **Makefile.conf** file in your OpenSIPS source tree if migrating to a new branch! This configuration file, generated by *make menuconfig*, is usually not compatible with the one of a previous major release!

---

## DB migration

You can migrate your 3.3.x MySQL DB to the 3.4.x format using the **opensips-cli** tool :
```bash

   # opensips-cli -x database migrate 3.3_to_3.4 opensips_3_3 opensips_3_4

```
where :
* opensips_3_3 is the existing DB name corresponding to version 3.3.x format
* opensips_3_4 is the DB name to be created for 3.4.x format

See [the opensips-cli documentation](https://github.com/OpenSIPS/opensips-cli/blob/master/modules/database.md#database-migration-mysql-only) for more details.

> [!NOTE]
> * the old database will not be deleted, altered or changed - it will not be touched at all
> * new database will be created and data from old DB will be imported into it

---

## Script migration

* no changes to *opensips.cfg* syntax

### Global Parameters

* [log_facility](/manual/3-4/script-coreparameters#log_facility) has been deprecated and replaced with [syslog_facility](/manual/3-4/script-coreparameters#syslog_facility).
* [log_name](/manual/3-4/script-coreparameters#log_name) has been deprecated and replaced with [syslog_name](/manual/3-4/script-coreparameters#syslog_name).
* [log_stderror](/manual/3-4/script-coreparameters#log_stderror) has been deprecated and is now equivalent with setting the new  [stderror_enabled](/manual/3-4/script-coreparameters#stderror_enabled) and [syslog_enabled](/manual/3-4/script-coreparameters#syslog_enabled) parameters as following:
  * *log_stderror=yes* - *stderror_enabled=yes* and *syslog_enabled=no* (default)
  * *log_stderror=no* - *stderror_enabled=no* and *syslog_enabled=yes*.

### Core Variables

* no changes

### Core keywords

* no changes

### Core functions

* no changes

### Core MI commands

* the output of the [list_blacklists](/manual/3-4/interface-coremi#list_blacklists) rules have changed to improve readability:
  * *owner* - now a string
  * *expire* - indicates the number of seconds until the rule expires
  * *proto* - printed as string protocol, or "any"

### Statistics migration

* no changes

## Module migration

### B2B_LOGIC module
* The flags of the [b2b_bridge()](/modules/3-4/b2b_logic#func_b2b_bridge) function have been renamed as following:
  * **n** to **notify**
  * **f** to **rollback-failed**
  * **t[nn]** to **max_duration=[int]**.
* The flags of the [b2b_init_request()](/modules/3-4/b2b_logic#func_b2b_init_request) function have been renamed as following:
  * **a** to **transparent-auth**
  * **p** to **preserve-to**
  * **t[nn]** to **setup-timeout=[nn]**
* The **init_sdp_body** and **init_sdp_ctype** parameters of the [b2b_init_request()](/modules/3-4/b2b_logic#func_b2b_init_request) function have been dropped.
* The **use_init_sdp** module parameter has been dropped.

### CFGUTILS module
* the [ts_usec_delta()](/modules/3-4/cfgutils#func_ts_usec_delta) 5th parameter has changed:  it is now a **string** instead of an **integer**, allowing arbitrary-sized diffs to be performed (no longer limited to max 2147 seconds).

### DIALOG module
* The **val** parameter of [store_dlg_value()](/modules/3-4/dialog#func_store_dlg_value) is now a variable.
* the first parameter, **idx** of the [set_dlg_flag()](/modules/3-4/dialog#func_set_dlg_flag), [test_and_set_dlg_flag()](/modules/3-4/dialog#func_test_and_set_dlg_flag), [reset_dlg_flag()](/modules/3-4/dialog#func_reset_dlg_flag), [is_dlg_flag_set()](/modules/3-4/dialog#func_is_dlg_flag_set) functions is now a static string.
* The [`$DLG_flags`](/modules/3-4/dialog#pv_DLG_flags) variable now returns a list of flag names separted by space instead of a single integer value.

### MID_REGISTRAR module
* Check the module docs for the **flags** parameters of the [mid_registrar_save()](/modules/3-4/mid_registrar#func_mid_registrar_save) and [mid_registrar_lookup()](/modules/3-4/mid_registrar#func_mid_registrar_lookup) functions for the mapping between the old and new flag names.

### NATHELPER module
* Check the module docs for the **flags** parameters of the [fix_nated_sdp()](/modules/3-4/nathelper#func_fix_nated_sdp) and [nat_uac_test()](/modules/3-4/nathelper#func_nat_uac_test) functions for the mapping between the old and new flag names.

### REGISTRAR module
* Check the module docs for the **flags** parameters of the [save()](/modules/3-4/registrar#func_save) and [lookup()](/modules/3-4/registrar#func_lookup) functions for the mapping between the old and new flag names.

### TM module
* Check the module docs for the **flags** parameter of the [t_relay()](/modules/3-4/tm#func_t_relay) function for the mapping between the old and new flag names.

## Command line options migration

* The **-E** option has been removed as standard error logging is used by default until the config script is parsed and a different setting is encountered (i.e. logging to syslog and stderror disabled etc.).

## Packaging migration

### AUTH modules
* NEW package available in the repos: **opensips-auth-modules**, containing both the **[auth](/modules/3-4/auth)** and **[uac_auth](/modules/3-4/uac_auth)** modules, mainly due to their extra dependency on a TLS library to be present on the system (e.g. OpenSSL or WolfSSL)
