---
title: "Migration from 3.1.x to 3.2.0"
description: "This section is meant to provide useful help in migrating your OpenSIPS installations from the 3.1.0 version to 3.2.0."
---

This section is meant to provide useful help in migrating your OpenSIPS installations from the **3.1.0** version to **3.2.0**.

You can find the all the new additions in the **3.2.0** release compiled [under this page](https://www.opensips.org/About/Version-3-2-0). The ChangeLog may help your understanding of the migration / update process.

> [!WARNING]
> Make sure you don't carry a left-over **Makefile.conf** file in your OpenSIPS source tree if migrating to a new branch! This configuration file, generated by *make menuconfig*, is usually not compatible with the one of a previous major release!

---

## DB migration

You can migrate your 3.1.x MySQL DB to the 3.2.x format using the **opensips-cli** tool :
```bash

   # opensips-cli -x database migrate 3.1_to_3.2 opensips_3_1 opensips_3_2

```
where :
* opensips_3_1 is the existing DB name corresponding to version 3.1.x format
* opensips_3_2 is the DB name to be created for 3.2.x format

See [the opensips-cli documentation](https://github.com/OpenSIPS/opensips-cli/blob/master/modules/database.md#database-migration-mysql-only) for more details.

> [!NOTE]
> * the old database will not be deleted, altered or changed - it will not be touched at all
> * new database will be created and data from old DB will be imported into it

---

## Script migration
The following is the full list of backwards-incompatible syntax or functional changes in the OpenSIPS configuration script:

* example

### Global Parameters

* example

### Core Variables

* (only for 3.2.4 or earlier) the `$rT` pseudo-variable (topmost route type) has been replaced by [`$route`](/manual/3-2/script-corevar#route) (route call stack).  The equivalent syntax is `$(route[-1]{s.select,0,[})`.  The `$rT` variable has been re-introduced starting with 3.2.5, for backwards-compatibility reasons.

### Core keywords

* example

### Core functions

* example

### Core MI commands

* example

### Statistics migration

* example

## Module migration

### ACC module

* The **acc_created_avp_name** parameter has been completely dropped, as it was no longer being used.

### PROTO_TLS module
* one of the [**tls_wolfssl**](/modules/3-2/tls_wolfssl) or [**tls_openssl**](/modules/3-2/tls_openssl) TLS library modules has to be loaded before *tls_mgm*

### PROTO_WSS module
* one of the [**tls_wolfssl**](/modules/3-2/tls_wolfssl) or [**tls_openssl**](/modules/3-2/tls_openssl) TLS library modules has to be loaded before *tls_mgm*

### TLS_MGM module
* if the *tls_mgm* module is only used for the management of TLS certificates and parameters by modules like [**db_mysql**](/modules/3-2/db_mysql), [**rabbitmq**](/modules/3-2/rabbitmq) etc. (and not for TLS operations by transport modules like [**proto_tls**](/modules/3-2/proto_tls) etc.) then the new [**tls_library**](/modules/3-2/tls_mgm#param_tls_library) module parameter must be set to *none*. Otherwise, *tls_mgm* will not start unless you also load [**tls_openssl**](/modules/3-2/tls_openssl) or [**tls_wolfssl**](/modules/3-2/tls_wolfssl), even though they are not actually used in this case.

### B2B_LOGIC module
* the B2B scenario logic is now implemented via OpenSIPS scripting instead of XML files. Check this [**tutorial**](//tutorials-b2bua-3-2) for more details and examples of XML scenarios and their equivalent OpenSIPS script implementation. 
* In order to simplify the migration effort, you have the option to use a legacy **b2b_logic_xml** module, that will be **obsoleted** with the next OpenSIPS 3.3 release. Use this only as a temporary solution until you properly migrate to the new variant of the b2b_logic_module.

### CFGUTILS module
* the **time_string** parameter of [check_time_rec()](/modules/3-2/cfgutils#func_check_time_rec) has been extended with a leading *timezone* field.  Although we made strings such as "20200101T...|..." **backwards-compatible** with the current implementation, strings such as "|20200101T..." **will now break your logic** unless you prepend your input with the **"timezone |"** string.  To use the system timezone, just prepend an empty-string timezone followed by the delimiter, i.e. **"|"**.
* time recurrences: the **byyearday**, **bymonth** and **byweekno** integers are now **1-indexed** instead of **0-indexed** (per RFC 5545)!  Make sure to convert any such data accordingly, otherwise your time recurrence strings will no longer match as expected following an upgrade to 3.2

### DIALPLAN module
* the *timerec* column syntax has been normalized.  Firstly, the **"dtend"** field has been added, so the final column value has been made compatible with the input of [check_time_rec()](/modules/3-2/cfgutils#func_check_time_rec).  Secondly, the leading **"timezone"** field has been added, so it must be prepended accordingly -- in order to keep using the system timezone, just prepend a **"|"** string.
* time recurrences: the **byyearday**, **bymonth** and **byweekno** integers are now **1-indexed** instead of **0-indexed** (per RFC 5545)!  Make sure to convert any such data accordingly, otherwise your time recurrence strings will no longer match as expected following an upgrade to 3.2

### Dialog module
* the *E_DLG_STATE_CHANGED* parameters have changed. The **hash_id** and **hash_entry** parameters were replaced by **id** and **db_id**, to be more consistent with the output of **dlg_list** and what OpenSIPS advertises in the Record-Route header. If you are listening for this event in your external application, or directly in OpenSIPS script using the EVI interface, make sure you adapt the `$param` names to the new format.

### DROUTING module
* the *timerec* column syntax has been normalized.  Firstly, the **"dtend"** field has been added, so the final column value has been made compatible with the input of [check_time_rec()](/modules/3-2/cfgutils#func_check_time_rec).  Secondly, the leading **"timezone"** field has been added, so it must be prepended accordingly -- in order to keep using the system timezone, just prepend a **"|"** string.
* time recurrences: the **byyearday**, **bymonth** and **byweekno** integers are now **1-indexed** instead of **0-indexed** (i.e. week 0 becomes week 1, per RFC 5545)!  Make sure to convert any such data accordingly, otherwise your time recurrence strings will no longer match as expected following an upgrade to 3.2
