---
title: "Migration from 3.0.x to 3.1.0"
description: "This section is meant to provide useful help in migrating your OpenSIPS installations from the 3.0.0 version to 3.1.0."
---

This section is meant to provide useful help in migrating your OpenSIPS installations from the **3.0.0** version to **3.1.0**.

You can find the all the new additions in the **3.1.0** release compiled [under this page](https://www.opensips.org/About/Version-3-1-0). The ChangeLog may help your understanding of the migration / update process.

> [!WARNING]
> Make sure you don't have any **Makefile.conf** files in your sources' root before starting the migration. The configuration file generated by *'menuconfig* is not compatible with the one in older version!

---

## DB migration

You can migrate your 3.0.x MySQL DB to the 3.1.x format using the **opensips-cli** tool :
```bash

   # opensips-cli -x database migrate 3.0_to_3.1 opensips_3_0 opensips_3_1

```
where :
* opensips_3_0 is the existing DB name corresponding to version 3.0.x format
* opensips_3_1 is the DB name to be created for 3.1.x format

See [the opensips-cli documentation](https://github.com/OpenSIPS/opensips-cli/blob/master/docs/modules/database.md#database-migration-mysql-only) for more details.

> [!NOTE]
> * the old database will not be deleted, altered or changed - it will not be touched at all
> * new database will be created and data from old DB will be imported into it

---

## Script migration
The following is the full list of backwards-incompatible syntax or functional changes in the OpenSIPS configuration script:
* the **listen** parameter was renamed as **socket** parameter, with the same definition and behavior.
* the **tcp_listen_backlog** parameter was renamed as **tcp_socket_backlog** parameter, with the same definition and behavior.
* script variable [`$fs`](/docs/manual/3-1/script-corevar#fs) to be replaced with [`$socket_out`](/docs/manual/3-1/script-corevar#socket_out)
* script variable [`$Ri`](/docs/manual/3-1/script-corevar#Ri) to be replaced with [`$socket_in(ip)`](/docs/manual/3-1/script-corevar#socket_in)
* script variable [`$Rp`](/docs/manual/3-1/script-corevar#Rp) to be replaced with [`$socket_in(port)`](/docs/manual/3-1/script-corevar#socket_in)
* script variable [`$af`](/docs/manual/3-1/script-corevar#af) to be replaced with [`$socket_in(af)`](/docs/manual/3-1/script-corevar#socket_in)
* script variables [`$proto`/`$pr`](/docs/manual/3-1/script-corevar#proto) to be replaced with [`$socket_in(proto)`](/docs/manual/3-1/script-corevar#socket_in)

### Global Parameters

* the **auto_aliases** is now by default off, so if you had no setting of it in the old script you should set it explicitly to "on" to keep the same behavior. 

### Core functions

* The following alias names were dropped:
  * **rewritehost()** for **sethost()**
  * **rewritehostport()** for **sethostport()**
  * **rewriteuser()** for **setuser()**
  * **rewriteuserpass()** for **setuserpass()**
  * **rewriteport()** for **setport()**
  * **rewriteuri()** for **seturi()**
* **[cache_raw_query()](/docs/manual/3-1/script-corefunctions)**'s last parameter is now an unquoted variable
* **[construct_uri()](/docs/manual/3-1/script-corefunctions)**'s *user*, *port* and *extra* are now optional parameters
* **[isflagset()](/docs/manual/3-1/script-corefunctions)`s,** [resetflag()](/docs/manual/3-1/script-corefunctions)`s and **[setflag()](/docs/manual/3-1/script-corefunctions)**'s parameter is now a quoted string
* **[isbflagset()](/docs/manual/3-1/script-corefunctions)`s,** [resetbflagset()](/docs/manual/3-1/script-corefunctions)`s and **[setbflagset()](/docs/manual/3-1/script-corefunctions)**'s *flag* parameter is now a quoted string
* the order of **[isbflagset()](/docs/manual/3-1/script-corefunctions)`s,** [resetbflagset()](/docs/manual/3-1/script-corefunctions)`s and **[setbflagset()](/docs/manual/3-1/script-corefunctions)**'s *flag* and *branch_idx* parameters has been inverted
* **[raise_event()](/docs/manual/3-1/script-corefunctions)**'s third parameter should now be always provided if you want the raised event to include attributes (eg. `raise_event("E_MY_EVENT", $avp(attr-val))` calls should be replaced with `raise_event("E_MY_EVENT", , $avp(attr-val))` calls)
* the migration requirements caused by the the changes in the core functions parameter interface have been described above; nevertheless you can also check the 2-4 to 3-0 module functions migration guidelines described [here](/docs/migration-2-4-0-to-3-0-0) as the changes are similar.
## Module migration

### AUTH module
* the "qop" parameter of the [www_challenge()](/docs/modules/3-1/auth#func_www_challenge) and [proxy_challenge()](/docs/modules/3-1/auth#func_proxy_challenge) functions is now optional and accepts the values: `auth`, `auth-int` or both (separated by ',').

### B2B_ENTITIES module
* dropped the **replication_mode** module parameter.

### DIALOG module

* the `$DLG_did` format has been changed from printing the `entry:id` of the dialog to `hex(entry).hex(id)`, just as the Record-Route parameter is added
* the **dlg_list** MI command no longer outputs the DB id as the ID of the dialog, but a `hex(entry).hex(id)` representation of its id. The DB id field has been moved in the **db_id** node.
* the **dlg_end_dlg** MI command no longer receives the DB id as an identifier for finding the dialog to terminate, but the same `hex(entry).hex(id)` printed by the `$DLG_did` variable and by the **dlg_list** command.

### DROUTING module

* the **carrier flags** have shifted as seen below.  This breaks the code of any provisioning UIs written for OpenSIPS 3.0 which are using the old flags (e.g. OpenSIPS Control Panel 8.3.0).
  * **WEIGHT_ROUTING** (@@red|removed@@, replaced by the new *sort_alg* column)
  * **USE_FIRST_GW** (*2* -> *1*)
  * **DISABLED** (*4* -> *2*)
  * **DIRTY** (*8* -> *4*)
* the **"W"** flag of *do_routing()* has been removed in favour of specifying it via the database (specifically, the *dr_rules.sort_alg* column).  If you were using weight-based routing before, you need to update **all** of your dr_rules to use the **"W"** sorting algorithm instead of **"N"** ("None", the current default).

### EVENT_DATAGRAM module
* The event payload is now formated as a JSON-RPC notification instead of the custom OpenSIPS line oriented formatting, so you have to change the parsing of the event in your external applications.

### EVENT_JSONRPC module
* the **event_jsonrpc** module has been renamed to **event_stream**. you have to replace your `modparam("event_jsonrpc"...` lines with `modparam("event_stream"...` lines
* the transport protocol token from the event socket has been changed from `jsonrpc` to `tcp` (for example, you have to use `tcp:127.0.0.1:8080/block_ip` instead of `jsonrpc:127.0.0.1:8080/block_ip`).

### EVENT_RABBITMQ module
* The event payload is now formated as a JSON-RPC notification instead of the custom OpenSIPS line oriented formatting, so you have to change the parsing of the event in your external applications. 

### PRESENCE module
* switch to string values instead of integers for the [cluster_federation_mode](/docs/modules/3-1/presence#param_cluster_federation_mode) module parameter (`disabled` instead of `0` and `on-demand-sharing` instead of `1`)
* the [server_address](/docs/modules/3-0/presence#param_server_address) module parameter has been dropped - its functionality was replaced by the new [contact_user](/docs/modules/3-1/presence#idp5574560) parameter.

### PROTO_TLS module

* the **tls_handshake_timeout** and **tls_send_timeout** parameters have been moved from the **tls_mgm** module to the **proto_tls** module. Check out the new documentation [here](/docs/modules/3-1/proto_tls#param_tls_handshake_timeout)]. To migrate your script, you should replace any of your lines as it follows:
```c

    # Before 3.1 was modparam("tls_mgm", "tls_handshake_timeout", 200)
    modparam("proto_tls", "tls_handshake_timeout", 200)
    # Before 3.1 was modparam("tls_mgm", "tls_send_timeout", 200)
    modparam("proto_tls", "tls_send_timeout", 200)

```

### PROTO_WSS module

* the `tls_handshake_timeout` and `tls_send_timeout` from the **tls_mgm** module have been removed, thus they can no longer be used to tune the **proto_wss** module. Instead of those parameters, we've added the [`wss_tls_handshake_timeout`](/docs/modules/3-1/proto_wss#param_wss_tls_handshake_timeout) and [`wss_send_timeout`](/docs/modules/3-1/proto_wss#param_wss_send_timeout), that are now part of the **proto_wss** module. To migrate your script, you should replace any of your lines as it follows:
```c

    # Before 3.1 was modparam("tls_mgm", "tls_handshake_timeout", 200)
    modparam("proto_wss", "wss_tls_handshake_timeout", 200)
    # Before 3.1 was modparam("tls_mgm", "tls_send_timeout", 200)
    modparam("proto_wss", "wss_send_timeout", 200)

```

### RLS module
* the [server_address](/docs/modules/3-0/rls#param_server_address) module parameter has been dropped - its functionality was replaced by the new [contact_user](/docs/modules/3-1/rls#idp5574560) parameter.

### TLS_MGM module

* the default [`tls_method`](/docs/modules/3-1/tls_mgm#param_tls_method) has been changed from `SSLv23` to `TLSv1_2`. Therefore if you were not setting the `tls_method` parameter in your script, you will now have to explicitly set it: `modparam("tls_mgm", "tls_method", "[default]SSLv23")`

### TM module
* **fr_timer** and **fr_inv_timer** are now completely removed (not just deprecated).  Use [fr_timeout](/docs/modules/3-1/tm#param_fr_timeout) and [fr_inv_timeout](/docs/modules/3-1/tm#param_fr_inv_timeout) instead!
